What's up guys? I'm Dunmire, top 100 tank player, and I'm gonna tell you guys how to play Diva in this guide. 1st I'm going to run through and talk about what changed with Overwatch one, Overwatch 2 for Diva, and then we'll talk about a general play style for the character. And then I'm going to go and do an actual breakdown of a professional Overwatch player, Smurf, who plays for this whole Dynasties gameplay. Yeah, starting off, what changed between Overwatch one, Overwatch two? So Diva got actually like a decent amount of changes because she's a tank character, she got her amount of armor and health change. Now she has 300.
Armor and 350 health, which is a lot more tanky than what she used to be.
So that was changed in addition to her primary fire having a reduced spread, meaning she does more damage at longer ranges essentially. And so it was changed from 4 degrees to 35 degrees. So a pretty substantial change with that. Her primary fire used to reduce her movement speed by 50% and not only reduces it by 40%, meaning that she can chase things down a lot more when she's built onto something and she's just trying to walk and fire at the same time. So while this changes were decently substantial.
The real changes for Diva are really just the fact that she doesn't have a tank to play alongside her anymore. She used to be played very frequently with Reinhart or Winston and so she wasn't the main, the main focus of Fire, but now she is. So that's the main thing that changes about her and that's what we're going to talk about, how you are going to have to adapt your play style playing like that, so.
Like I said, because she used to have these other tanks, used to have a Winston or Reinhart to support her and be like the frontline tank when she was the off supporting tank. She doesn't have the ability to do that. In the same way she used to be able to play from a high ground control angles and just mark things that are going off on the side and support her main tank, but now she can't do that. So she basically gains more of this tanky responsibility and so you're going to see Diva playing a lot more to like frontline damage.
Not just as pure like I'm just going to stand out and pretend I'm Reinhart, but because of the tankiness she's gotten and because of the fact that sometimes you do need to stand in front of the enemy team and try and like stuff them in a choke point or contest car or something like that, you're going to see Diva doing that a lot more often because she's tankier and can, but also just because it's her responsibility so.
Umm.
There are fewer stuns now in the game, two which make her a lot more able to be aggressive in Overwatch. One, she had things to deal with that would just stop her from being able to push super aggro into teams, and now she can do that with higher likelihood of being successful. Partly from the tankiness, the extra tankiness. She's gone, but mainly just because you don't have as many stunts and things to stop her and punish her once she's done then. So this, along with her higher damage output, makes her have an even more high focus of being.
Dive, tank And so she plays very similar to like how Winston used to do, sometimes contesting the enemies frontline, but really primarily looking to dive onto things. O whenever a fight starting to devolve, whenever there's an opportunity is going to want to dive on to something and burn it down and kill it with her primary fire damage and her missiles. All right, we're going to talk about how to play the character. So as I said, it's OK to poke front lines a little bit as long as you're not taking too much damage from the enemy, but that's not the main thing you want to be doing.
You basically are going to be looking to like poke a little bit. But as soon as you see an opportunity where there is a DPS hitscan usually slit from its team or a support player who got low trying to push through a choker smell like that, you're going to immediately dive on to that. So you're going to push on to these sort of aggro plays and try and secure kills. Ryan forced the enemy into being weak so the rest of your team can kill them. And just looking to in general frag out, that's your general responsibility as diva, and that's part of what makes diva so powerful.
So you're looking to dive them, use your Micro Missiles to buff your damage. So you're hitting with your primary fire micro missiles and then you're going to be using your defense matrix to feather it essentially to pop it a little bit as you're going in O it to try and dodge like an honestly daughter or something like that and then use it to get out also. But you know you fly, you fly a little bit away, turn around defense matrix to block the damage before you lose your Mac, and then walk around the corner to maintain this sort of aggression. So the main reason you want to play Diva over another character.
Winston Wrecking Ball is her defense matrix because it allows her to not only eat damage that's sent onto her and her teammates, but also important cooldowns and ultimates too.
Of course, I can't meet everything and can't stop Zaria's primary fire, Winston's Tesla cannon, or like a junk rat trap, But he can do a lot, so it's extremely, extremely powerful.
The main ways to use it are using it to push into enemies. So if you're diving onto something like an Anna or an Ash, using it to eat U their sleep dart or their coach gun as you're flying in and stop them from stopping you from getting on to them and allow you to continue to their aggression and do a lot of damage to them or even kill them. That's one way to use it. But if you do go too hard you can also use it to defend yourself, whether you just use your defense matrix to block damage on you and back up so you can be healed up or use it to use it as you're flying away.
Like flying and then canceling your boosters and turning around any damage on you set your momentum takes you away from them while you're blocking all the damage on you. That's an option too.
Another way in, one of the most important things you can do with defense matrix is use it to protect your teammates. And that's really like the main thing you're going to want to be thinking about how you use your defense matrix is protecting your teammates. O for example, if there's a tracer on the enemy team who's been looking like she wants to jump on to yours and yacht, or you're Anna, if you watch for positioning and then right as she goes on to them, you defense matrix them, the trainer is not going to get any value and oftentimes we'll be able to be killed afterwards too. So that's a really, really powerful thing that you can do on top of this.
You can also eat ultimates at enemy Senden. Not everything, of course, but something like Zarya's ultimate Bara or Acid's ultimate two can be consumed by it. So when you think they have them, like they've waited a little while, they haven't used it for a bit, predicting it with Zarya's ultimate, or reacting to the voice line from Capacity and Farah, we'll let you completely negate their ultimate. And so it's very, very powerful thing for just a standard ability to be able to do all right, jumping into some more general gameplay tips, so.
Diva has the responsibility to both take care of teammates but also defrag out. So you kind of have to be thinking about what you want to be doing with this and which of these two versions you want to be playing.
The best rule of thumb is really to be thinking about like which of your teammates, which of the two teams has more long range damage. So for example, if you're playing with an Ash and a Sojourn in the enemy team has a May and like a Sombra or something like that, your team will definitely beat them long term, spamming damage from the front. So you want to help your team maintain that situation.
So instead of going for like hard aggressive dives under the enemy, you're going to want to play more to just defend them is poke from Maine, Eat damage onto them.
Under dive something that dies onto them, like of a diva dives onto your ash, you dive onto the diva and force the diva to go away. That sort of stuff. But if you're in the opposite situation where you are the one who needs to be diving in because your team doesn't deal damage as long, or doesn't deal as consistent long range long term damage, then that's where things change a little bit.
So essentially you need to be looking for some sort of an opportunity. You don't want to just jump into a group of five and die to the enemy, you want to be looking for someone to be low.
Them to be like pushing through a choke point and being vulnerable to a dive or something like somebody on your team being able to go with you. So for example if you're gingy or your tracer is set U to jump onto the enemy backline you see them going in. That can be a trigger to just jump in and pursue a kill as you see in this this pic, this clip. Here we have Smurf jumping on to the junk rat when he hears where he's ulting from because he knows the junk that's not is going to be vulnerable and is also split from his team and so he can't stop.
The diva from killing him. Now, you don't want to get too one sided with both of these things, but you do have to be thinking about using some of them in both of these Blu-ray styles. But it's how you should generally be leaning O. Moving on to the Ultimate Diva's ultimate is extremely powerful.
There's two main ways to use it. The main, the most common way that people do it, like a lower level, is just kind of tossing it into the air at a group at a 45 degree angle and hoping for the best. And while you can get a lot of value out of that and it's obviously effective in some ways, the best way to do it is to wait until your low HP. When you are low HP and you normally be DMAC, you can then alt to make yourself have a full another life and get your Mac back. But when you're doing that you can also kind of get some of this unfair kills sort of mentality going in if you just wait.
Until you're like 100 HP or so, and then boost fly up into the air and then toss the bomb. That way you get to have a full another life and so you made full usage of the first life essentially with the neck. And then you might also be able to get kills. O that's a really, really good to do with that too.
Alright, now we're going to talk through some of The Smurfs gameplay just so I can show you guys how a pro player plays, and I'm going to talk through what his decision making is, what he's looking to do and all that sort of stuff. OC is immediately there's a fire Mercy on the enemy team and while obviously this is going to be kind of a more of a niche situation, you are extremely good at burning down fares and mercies. So he looks to do that. When you are targeting a foreign Mercy, you're going to want to go for the Mercy first because the Mercy is not being healed and therefore is the easier target and essentially as soon as the Mercy dies, the far dies.
O go for mercy first. Anywhere she goes you can follow her and just burn her down and just honestly just with the hound her and she won't have a good time at all. Just like this dad, you know And of course as you saw there are two Tibet does do a lot of damage so if you happen to just.
Be similar, then all of a sudden you're staring at the back of a Brigita, then then burn her down too.
What you will see a lot in these gameplay clips though is a Smurf is going to want to control hydrons very frequently. Eva is very good at accessing high ground, stopping enemies from being on high ground and really denying them that advantage. It's extremely, extremely good for enemy teams to be on high grounds, just because of the fact that it gives them places to back up to and essentially allows under control the angles in a in a fight. And basically whoever controls how your owns in a match will essentially win. So you really, really want to deny them as much as possible, and you're going to see Smurf doing that.
So whenever he's repositioning for a fight, he's likely to sit on the high ground if he does nothing else to be doing, and so we'll be there to.
Stop the enemy from taking the team waving at the bumper as he.
As he got, he got trapped a little bit rude.
But as I talked about, when you are playing in a situation in which you have either positional advantage or you just have more long range damage, you don't really need to be diving too much. He is consistently doing it to dive onto the Farah because the Farrah will out spam his team over time.
And so, um.
Stopping that damage output is like the second version that I talked about, where you're looking to dive onto the enemy and stop them from dealing more damage to you overtime and try and do it as fast as possible.
So you're going to see that in this gameplay that instead of like taking it more slow and justice taking the advantage, he's going to be pushing, resting on the enemy team.
Another factor to include in the whole.
Dive or not dive sort of thing is positional advantage.
If you are playing on defense, you usually do simply have the positional advantage, so you don't need to go super aggro.
All the time. But if your team does get out, damaged overtime at range, then you know you still should be looking to do it. Or if you see a good opportunity, then it's time to bounce onto that and that's basically what you're seeing. This whole gameplay clip is him. Just as soon as the fire comes up close, the fire gets in range. The far uses her boost dives onto it immediately. Now he's going pretty, pretty, very aggressive and is going to get out of it, but.
That's what he's been looking to do and so it's given him this round essentially.
Like I said, whole game just takes them on. The Farrah far as are pretty vulnerable, especially when you don't have a farm, they have mercy with them anymore, so you always want to be chasing them down and hunting them down.
Alright, so moving on to the second round here, and you're going to see different gameplay coming from this because they're no longer playing against AFARA. Now he's playing against a Somber, which changes up what he does, and he's going to give you guys a more standard show of what you should be doing as diva. So Diva really wants to play for positional advantages. You play to secure positional advantage, whether that's securing a high ground or forcing an enemy out of something, and then you want to look for opportunities to go on to or to protect your team. That's essentially what you do. You're an advantage and then either protect your team or look for an opportunity.
So as you can see here ends U.
Pushing into this high ground because it's going to give him a nice little off angle on the on the back line of the enemy. A nice little flank essentially.
So he gets up here, happens to see an echo low.
Get some damage onto her and then immediately on top of a brigida that's stuck in a bad position.
Since the Bride is low, has low shield and Smurf still has a bunch of HP, time to push on to that and it forces the enemy back. And because Azaria bubbled the Brigida, she lived. But not for too long because he dies pretty soon.
And that's the sort of dive stuff I was talking about. When you see an opportunity, you go for it. You don't want to go too far, as I'm going to show you right now with him going too far and end up dying. And you definitely don't want to face tank against Azari for too long because you will definitely just die against that. But it's his general gameplay style, looking for opportunities and then engaging in those opportunities.
So you're going to see him reengaging here?
End up walking into the enemy and he's looking at a lot of damage.
So same sort of thing with an opportunity.
In an opportunity doesn't have to be something like where you're securing a kill. It can also be something just like this. With walking U here and seeing an Echo aggressing on Tanzania onto his team, he was going to dive onto her, try and force her out. You don't have to like go for a kill every single time. Sometimes just tickling some damage onto them will be enough to force them away.
Here he ends up trying to just contest the point for a while, and it ends up kind of.
Trying to make the best out of a bad situation, but ends up ends up just being bullied by a lot of enemies.
And this is kind of why, like Divas changed more often or changed a lot from Overwatch to or Overwatch one, sorry, because you didn't have to do that as often. And so in that situation, you do want to be trying to like, lie to one of the sides.
Could have the point as long as possible, but maybe not just stand in front of where the enemy is looking at you. The Smurf probably could have played a little better. I'm going to the opposite side of the point to put the enemy's attention or something like that, but.
Here, you know, you can see Murph just spazzing out and you know, kind of looks like he's just trolling or doing something weird. But what he's doing is he's trying to scout for the enemy Sombra because she has her ultimate. And since you have no animal capacity and you have like permanent beam of damage, essentially you can find them pretty consistently. He didn't. So they ended up getting a kill off and.
On his Kiriko, but that's what he was doing there.
In like a lower tier, something that's not like, you know, a bunch of pros playing each other, you're probably not going, you're going to see a lot of Sombra gameplay like that, but that is what you would do if you were in the situation.
Here we see another opportunity being pushed. When Smurf does get this Nano boost, you immediately just goes hard because it becomes so tanky at that point and there's an to sitting in front of them. He doesn't end up getting the kill on the on it right away, but it just completely softens up The whole enemy team gets him a kill in Agita forces this Echo to go in too hard and he and his team are going to win the fight because of this so.
It's a very good play, and that's some sort of a trigger that I've been talking about. These opportunities, whether you see an enemy being low HP and any being an enemy being out of position, you having a nano boost thrown on to you. Now of course you don't want to go into five with an Intel boost by yourself, you'll die, but.
With the knowledge that you still can die and if you have any sort of team follow up, it's just pretty safe to just go super hard there he does.
Even though you don't wanna be standing in front of an enemies area for too long because you can get some of this HP healed up, he's still trying to focus out this area, which is why you can see him poking him out a little bit, poking him out a little bit, trying to force a bubble or something like that. Maybe his team focuses them down, they get a weird kill in the Zaria, something like that. He unfortunately does get pushed into the well and hacked at the same time, which just unlucky, but.
That is nothing really to learn from that. That's just kind of tragic. But you can do about that one again, you scouting in for the Sombra.
So you're going to see him taking the high ground again. High grounds are really, really advantageous just because you can use them and kite back from them. Like if those already looks at him right now, he can back U further and the area will be hitting the bottom of this and won't be able to deal damage to him. So he controls the engagement essentially and so he gets a lot of value out of that. So it's a good idea to just fly basically from high ground to high ground as much as you can.
Another really important thing to talk about on Diva is when to push and when to kite. With any sort of tank you wanted to push in with, with advantages and to cut away from disadvantages. When he goes in and forces a somber out, he's looking at an echo, a Brigita rally, Azaria, it's not time to go in, so he backs up.
Backs up, tries to kite it out.
And not have to, like, take the full brunt of that damage.
Even though you are pretty tanky now and you can go back in, but it's just about kiting it for a little bit, right? Pushing into the area a little bit there ends up getting hacked, getting pushed and pushed a little bit too hard, but does something really useful here with the Mac too.
When you do use your Mac to read, when you're trying to get back into your mic with your ultimate, you'll only have 150 HP right now. As you can see he gets knocked down to 10 for a second U to 36, but at this point if he uses his mech right here to recall it, he will, likely due to the Retina cause you can get.
You can get whipped with the bash ability. So what he does is he walks just around the corner, pops it, and it gives him just that little bit of extra time to survive that and it's super, super useful to do that.
So always be kind of aware of like if there's a place nearby you can get, you can just barely walk around to try and be a little bit safer when you try and remake.
This team ends U losing this round, but making sure you're controlling high grounds. Kidding. Advantaging disadvantages? Pushing advantages following U on.
Pushing into enemies when they have the ability to deal more damage than your team does from range. Looking to sustain your team when it's the opposite. These sort of things will make you do really well in Diva like as you can see in the first round of gameplay he was constantly diving the fire up because the fire constantly output like constantly output and chunk damage onto his team and so he's diving her. It would be the same thing with water as an ash or like an echo flying around. You want to be trying to just constantly put those threats out as long as you have, like as long as you're gonna be feeding to do it right.
Since he was on defense and was relatively safe, he wasn't so.
If you're looking for some more Overwatch Two content, then make sure to check out these videos I have right here. Like I said, I'm a top 100 Overwatch player, so I have lots of videos and things to share with you guys.
